Church Auditing Department Report, 2009
By Robert W. Cantwell
Managing Director, Church Auditing Department
To the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Dear Brethren: As prescribed by revelation in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes authorizes the expenditure of Church funds. This council is composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric. This council approves budgets for Church departments and operations. Church departments expend funds consistent with approved budgets and in accordance with Church policies and procedures.

The Church Auditing Department has been granted access to all records and systems necessary to evaluate the adequacy of controls over receipts of funds, expenditures, and safeguarding of Church assets. The Church Auditing Department is independent of all other Church departments and operations, and the staff consists of certified public accountants, certified internal auditors, certified information systems auditors, and other credentialed professionals.

Based upon audits performed, the Church Auditing Department is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2009 have been recorded and administered in accordance with appropriate accounting practices, approved budgets, and Church policies and procedures.

Respectfully submitted,
RobertW. Cantwell
Managing Director

Statistical Report, 2009
Brook P. Hales

The First Presidency has issued the following statistical report of the Church as of December 31, 2009.

Church Units
Stakes

2,865

Missions

344

Districts

616

Wards and Branches

28,424

Church Membership
Total Church Membership

13,824,854

New Children of Record during 2009

119,722

Converts Baptized during 2009

280,106

Missionaries
Number of Full-Time Missionaries

51,736

Temples
Temples Dedicated during 2009

(Draper Utah and Oquirrh Mountain Utah)

2

Temples in Operation

130

Former General Church Officers and Other Prominent Church Members Who Have Passed Away since Last April
Elder Royden G. Derrick, an emeritus General Authority; Elders George I. Cannon, W. Don Ladd, Douglas J. Martin, and Joseph C. Muren, former members of the Seventy; Sister Colleen W. Asay, widow of Elder Carlos E. Asay, an emeritus General Authority; Sister Jeanne C. Dunn, widow of Elder Paul H. Dunn, an emeritus General Authority; Sister Jelaire C. Simpson, widow of Elder Robert L. Simpson, an emeritus General Authority; Sister Jacqueline Y. Lawrence, wife of Elder W. Mack Lawrence, a former member of the Seventy; Sister Betty N. Turley, wife of Elder Richard E. Turley Sr., a former member of the Seventy; Brother David S. King, former assistant in the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association general superintendency; Sister Ann S. Reese, former counselor in the Relief Society general presidency; Brother Robert J. Matthews, an authority on the Joseph Smith Translation of the Bible; and Brother Truman G. Madsen, Church scholar and former director of the BYU Jerusalem Center.

